Claude Design is amazing, but the limits
are brutal and it can stop you dead in
your tracks. Open Design is a clone of
Claude Design, and it is 100% local. And
in this video, I'll show you exactly how
to use this to build any website, app,
or design that you want with any model
you want to, even 100% for free, so you
can stop wasting time and start growing
your business. And if you don't know who
I am, my name is Jack Roberts. I bought
them for my last tech startup with
thousands and thousands of customers.
Now I build my own uh companies and show
you the exact things that work. So if
you haven't already, grab that coffee
and let's dive straight in. So replacing
Claude Design, the limits are so high in
Claude Design. You just say the word
Claude and you're 50% of the way through
it. Now Open Design is a new GitHub repo
that is fast trending and I expect it to
rise very very quickly because
essentially with cloud design, we're
locked in. It's only Opus 4.7 has
limitations. I'll show you. Open Design
has a completely different license and
you can use it with as many models as
you want to. Now, Cloud Design itself is
pretty cool. We've all seen what Cold
Design looks like. You can build nice
individual graphics and stuff. I mean,
we've all seen all the wonders of Cloud
Design. It's a pretty cool software,
right? But what's the problem with it?
Well, there's a few problems with it. It
kind of sucks. And it sucks because, you
know, it's so easy to use it. 10 prompts
and you're 95% of the way done. I built
out a design system with it and it was
pretty much baked and cooked at that
very moment. So, it really restricts you
which I think if you're actually going
to do meaningful design can be a little
bit limiting. Yes, you can export to
claw code but it has its limitations and
some of the biggest issues with it.
People say the cat melts in like just 25
minutes. You can do one meaningful
project a week. Everyone thinks that
output looks like AI slop a $20 pro and
you can only have one model which is
Opus 4.7. And of course, you're locked
into the anthropic ecosystem with this.
And the issue with this model swap is
what if you want to use a different
model or you want to do it more cheaply
so you can do this at scale, you're kind
of held back. This is where Open Design
comes into play. Now, first thing to
call out is you've got an Apache 2.0
license. So, there are other repos, but
they try to replicate and clone what
Claw Design does, but you can't actually
use them. And I've seen videos that have
gone off recently on this. You can't use
an inclined project. And for me, that
just I I don't really see the point of
that if you can't use it commercially.
This has an Apache 2.0 license. It's got
over 71 de basically brand design
systems, loads of skills and you can
effectively build it out in so many
different brand designs as I'll show you
inside the video. And the way this works
is you pick a brand, the agent, inherent
of voice, typography, pallet, layout
language, and the code. It was built off
a really popular GitHub that went viral
called Vault Designs. It's a really
really cool one. So it's great to see
that they're building on this. So
specifically what this can do that you
can't do in C design and then we're
going to download this and build
something cool together so we can see
this for ourselves. First of all, you
can pick any large language model you
already pay for. We can and the
interface for this is really cool. This
could be a free model. If I want to
bring in Chad Gibb Gemini, I can do all
of that stuff. You have 7:1 brand
systems that are baked into it. You have
a package 2.0, which means it's safe for
clients. You can use it on client work,
sell products built with it, never ask
permission, never pay royalties forever,
unlike other GitHub repos I've seen
popping off on YouTube. So, it's it's
really important to bear that in mind.
It's local first, nothing uploads, which
is great. It's all in your own
ecosystem. If you want to design
something controversial, go ahead and do
it. You have five different export
formats. So, HTML, PowerPoint, PD, uh,
you know, zips and these uh, and you can
discover first. So, basically, surface,
audience, tone, brand scale forces the
model to ask before it rides. So, let's
go ahead and try this puppy out. So, all
we're going to do is shoot over to this.
Now, this is an example of what it looks
like to give you a bit of an overview.
Design with the agent already your
laptop. As you can see, these are
examples of what the product looks like.
This is basically open design. And
expect this to get more and more popular
over time. And by the way, it just goes
out. This kind of like taking the system
prompt intelligence and building
something local. So all you're going to
do is connect to code like so. You're
going to copy this. So you're going to
pop over to your environment of choice.
I'm anti-gravity here. And what I'd like
to do is come over here and just say,
"Hey there. I'd like to go ahead and
clone this repo, please." And then open
it up for me. All right. And all you're
going to do is paste in a GitHub repo
like so. Drop that in and let it work
its magic in the background. Now, one
thing that's good to understand about
this is it isn't just you talking to the
repo. It's actually got its own
environment which is so freaking cool
because it opens up and basically your
browser which is your own locally hosted
claude design replica which is freaking
cool. So when you ask it to open up it
may need just to install something but
again called code or anti-gravity will
do that all for you directly. And I just
want to call out as well on the left
hand side you got all these different
things in the design systems right we've
got air tableable Apple Binance Coinbase
Kraken we got Nike we've got PlayStation
all these different design MDs from
really cool websites. So if you want a
website in that basic style it'll do
that for you and it can leverage that
which is super cool. And then this is
what it opens up. This is open design.
Now, first thing you'll notice when you
open up Open Design is you're basically
deciding the models that you've already
installed. I've installed Gemini, I've
got Hermes, I've got Codeex. There's so
many different things you can do. If you
want to know how to install those, I'll
put a link on screen for a video I did
literally a couple of days ago that show
you all that processes, but basically
you can add the models on your computer
currently and use it. So, let's say that
I want to use Cloud Code, which is
great. You can also do a bring your own
keys if you want to. That's really cool,
but we're just going to use the CLI for
this one. So if you've got club code
download on your laptop, this will be
here ready to rock and roll. You got the
model. So I can actually specifically go
ahead and choose that to do whatever I
want to again. And if I want to just do
something like a free model, I can go
ahead and use that too. But I'm going to
go ahead with claude code here and click
on get started. So for instance, cool.
So now we're rocking and rolling. Let's
give it a project name. And you'll bear
in mind it bears an uncanny resemblance
to the one that you've seen before. So
I'll just say something like analytics.
Okay. And then I'm going to come down
here. Wireframe high fidelity. And guys,
it looks very very similar, but it's
basically an open source thing. So let
me bring this over so you can see. Okay,
cool. So I'm going to come down. I want
a SAS analytics dashboard. That sounds
really cool. Just click send on that and
see what it does. And then what you get
within this as well. Quick brief. So
let's just say it's going to be for
desktop web, which is going to be cool.
Who's the prime reviewer? I'll say
founder exec is decent. Tone with dark
and utility. You know, do you want data
dog, linear, stripe, radar, bloomberg,
and let's just go for pure operator
density. Aine grids, green, amber, red
status, quieter, near grayscale, softer,
dark, warm accent, more white space.
Terminal maximum density, no decoration.
Let's go for a bit of a stripe style
dashboard. I think that could be really
cool. Product name. I'm going to give
something like Vantage. Brand context.
Pick a direction for me. Scope. I'll
just say simple dense overview page.
That's fine. Or I could do overview tab
with two to three sliding tabs. That's
cool. Make it super interactive.
Gorgeous. Beautiful animations.
Something that has a wow factor, but is
also beautifully designed. When that's
done, let's go ahead and just click on
send answers. Cool. And then it's got
pick a dark direction. So again, we can
just pick which of palettes that we like
and we think is pretty cool. So why
don't we go for one that's got this kind
of nice the quick brown fox that looks
decent and then we've got accent
override where should a single well
moment land again it's kind of working
with us it iteratively and coming back
and forth on this let's just go for
world heat map would be cool and just
click on send answers then literally
guys you can see it's going to be
working through all those to-do lists on
the left hand side and effectively
they've taken the essence and basically
what makes cord design and they've just
open sourced it and let you work through
everything on your own computer this is
100% local right now and the actual user
interface is pretty pleasant to use to
be honest guys. And then just like that
I open up and this is the dashboard that
it's given me. I mean look at the
interactivity on this monthly recurring
revenue active workforces workspace
retention chart. This is by the way one
shot I've done nothing else this and
it's live like things are adding in like
that could be tidied up a little bit
right which is cool but look at this
like this is really impressive. Now the
cool thing about this is that I can if I
want to change the models. So, if I want
to do this and I'm like, you know what,
I've spent, you know, my Opus 4.7 is out
or I want to use chat GPT. I can come
down now in the bottom left, which you
can see cuz I've got this thing down
here, local CLI. I click on this and
then all you're going to do is just
switch it over to codeex. Cool. I'm
going to come down, click on save, which
is wonderful. Now, that's done. I click
back on Vanguard. Now, I'm without GBT.
So, here, for example, I might come back
over and I might just say something
like, "Hey there, dude. Could you just
make an improvement to the live event
stream? It looks a little bit laggy when
it comes in. Just make that a bit
smoother for me please. Release and then
basically chat GBT can do the work for
us. And by the way you can see when you
do switch the models you'll have Codex.
Codeex is initializing. Codex is
running. And that's how easy it is now
to get any model to code and replicate
core design like that. I think this is
really cool. I didn't really have too
many expectations coming into this. And
as always the goal of this channel is to
share the stuff that works. A little
hack that I've personally found guys is
that, you know, use Opus, use claw to
get the initial design, then you can tag
in the other models once there's like an
existing design architecture. It's like
the rooms, think of it like a basically
a room being painted and you get a
typical kind of vibe. It's way easier to
do more of the same than it is to
completely engineer from first
principles up. So that's why I think
it's helpful to get these things to make
amendments. Now that says it's done.
Let's just full screen this for example
and check it out. Now, if I come down,
do I see this being uh changed a little
bit? I think we need to probably just
refresh it, right? So, let's just maybe
come off this one here and we come back
over and do we see a difference? I'm
going to come down and see. Okay, there
we go. And that is slightly different.
So, the first iteration wasn't perfect.
I give it a second piece of feedback.
And look at this. It's pretty much ready
to rock and roll. That whole design
thing is completely different. And then
you got this wonderful thing. And if I
want to export it, here's a cool thing.
I come over here to share at the top. I
can export as a PDF, as a PowerPoint,
download as Z, export as standalone HTML
or save as template or you can even
publish this directly to Vel from this
app which is crazy. So if I click on
deploy to Vel for example, you can see
here all I have to do is include my Vell
token which I can get from online. Why
is this important? Well, this now
becomes a fullyfledged app. You open up
Vell, you connect it and you can
basically pop it there which is
absolutely wild. Or if I want to play
around with it in anti-gravity or
different systems, I can do that.
download it as a zip and have that on my
desktop. Then I could open it up into
codecs. I could open up into claw or
anti-gravity or your own individual
environment of choice. Then if I come
back for example and so you can also
import your basically claude design zips
by clicking here. So if you build like a
claw design over there, you can bring
that over which I think is really cool.
Again you've got design systems that all
visible here under the design system
section. You've got image prompts which
is freaking awesome. So if you want to
collect more of these kind of images
that's fantastic. video prompts as well.
So you can see all of this different
stuff. Like it literally is becoming
like the Higsfield of design. Like
that's effectively what we're seeing
here. You have your own design systems
that you can pick if you want to. So you
like the Lamborghini design system. Now
anything we create will be in the
Lamborghini design system style. Then
for example, if you click on your little
profile at the top, there's another way
of getting into that. You can see we
have a local CLI. You can have enthropic
API where you bring your own keys if you
want to. Media provider. So these you
can just integrate everything you want
to. For example, if I want to build to
create GPT images, I can go ahead and
grab my open AI key. And so when we come
back over here, I just throw the API key
in here, which is cool at the top. Click
on save and then it is ready to rock and
roll. So technically then if I just come
back over to my designs, click on
Vanguard. Then I might come down and
say, "Hey there, add for me a beautiful
Ghiblly style image uh in one of the
boxes of like I don't know some kind of
investment piggy bank. Uh use the chat
GBT API to do this." And just like this
guys, it is now complete. So, I scroll
down and do I see it? Guys, look at
that. And what's really cool, I don't if
you can see this now. I'll just try if I
can zoom in a little bit, give you a
fresh look on this thing. But can you
see how not only has it added it in,
it's added this beautiful kind of blur
gradient in that has lifted the quality
of this so much. And that that's just
one shot. And now I've got that
integrated. I can do it as much as I
want to. I'm genuinely pretty impressed
with that to be fair because you also
got to think if you're building this in
Claude like you're not able to actually
naturally integrate like design like
that with any of the models and let's be
fair they all have their own individual
superpowers like the Avengers, right?
Imagine if it was just the Hulk. Well,
the Hulk's cool, but he can't fly and
shoot lasers out of his eyes, right? So,
we kind of want to mix and match based
on their preferences. Then, to take this
one step further, you can also code
completely for free. So, I'll put this
skill down below for free. It'll be in
the community. Just go ahead grab on and
grab that. All you're going to do is
copy all this stuff off. Then head back
over to anti-gravity. So all you're
going to say to anti-gravity is awesome.
I'd now like to have a new CLI.
Basically using open router use the blow
skill to set this all up. So I just want
to be able to use a series of free
models to do all of my design via the
CLI. Just drop that in and you can just
literally paste the entire thing in that
you got from the skill and then we're
good to go. And this of course is using
open code which effectively lets you use
any models that you want to in within
one umbrella. It's very cool. I'll put a
link on screen somewhere for you so you
can see my full open code breakdown so
you get a sense of just how epic that
is. Now my recommendation is that you
always go paid realistically because
again it's just going to be way better.
But you can do path A which is free
models which is going to be like Deep
Seek V3.1 etc. or path B which is going
to be Sonic 4.7 different ones. Say for
example I just want to go down that and
I want to say hey do path A for me. Now
bear in mind models like DeepS v4 are
great. that are like a 1/100th of the
cost for like 95% of the same
performance and and in some categories
it even exceeds enthropic models. So
these are just some things for you to
bear in mind. But if you're designing
generally speaking initially you want to
lead on Opus. And obviously at this
point we're just going to head to open
routet and grab our API key. Then of
course go and grab your API key. You'll
need at least $5 or $10. I recommend at
least 10 even if using free models
because basically it needs to validate
you're not some kind of like spam
account. And once you've done that
basically open code will be available
right here. You click on get started and
then we are ready to rock and roll and
you're connected to any of the models
that you connected in open code. And so
where does this leave us? Well, look,
here's the thing, right? You've got two
kind of like routes here. You've got the
anthropic path. So that could be $20 a
month, $200 a month. I'm on the $200 a
month plan. I found I didn't really get
any more usage than $20 plan actually.
So I run out pretty quickly. You're
looking at a couple designs a week. Uh
again, Opus is $4.7 mainly and there's a
monthly cost. The open path is from $0.
You can use things like chat GBT in
there and any model that you literally
want to. Now, what would I recommend? I
don't recommend that you use free models
in it. But what I do recommend that you
do is you build existing styles that you
like using Opus. And then once you've
got that, then deploy your chat GBTs,
deploy your Geminis, your other
different models, Deep Seeks, whatever
you want to to design those at scale,
which you can then either deploy
directly in Versel and post or you can
pretty much do whatever you want to. And
obviously if you're doing production
grade stuff for clients guys, always
make sure that you're going check that
codeex like chat GBD 5.5 to review all
the code as well just to make sure that
you're fully backed up. But again,
initial design system anthropic and then
go nuts with this. But you can build in
any model you want to now, which is why
this is so freaking cool. So quick till
uh what is it great for? It's great if
you're an agency freelancer, you want to
design commercially safe and be able to
sell it. You're a multimodel operator,
so you're already paying for claw code,
codec or cursor. you're burning claw
designs a weekly cap and you're like,
"Jack, I just want more designs. Well,
this is a great option and you're
building brand specific work against so
many different design systems. Um, when
is it to skip?" Um, probably if you are
very fresh. Well, you meant this far in
the video. You're a freaking killer. So,
if this doesn't apply for you, but if
you speaking to your like dad or your
mate's older brother that works at like
IBM and he's very technophobic, you
might be like, "Dude, just use, you
know, claw design for now and get
started with that." Um, again, if you're
doing this and you're happy with the UI
and you're happy with the limitations,
that's cool. That's one thing. Um, but
ultimately, I think it's a really
brilliant addition. The other caveat
just to bear in mind is that this repo,
Open Design, is 12 days old, so there
are a couple of bugs picking up here and
there. I didn't run into any personally,
but just kind of, you know, give it some
grace and mileage might vary a little
bit. The guy seems working really hard
on it, but I think it's pretty cool. My
favorite feature, though, to be fair, is
the fact that I can port in CHB image
generation and use any model I want to.
I genuinely think that is really
freaking cool. And so now you've got
your own open design system locked down.
Next thing that we need to do is learn
how to bring in chat GPT and Gemini
effortlessly when we're using Claude so
we always get the best model for the job
which we're going to learn by watching
this video right Here.